# Analysis-for-cchsData
Mood disorder vs lifestyle factors and disability: an interactive logistic regression of the Canadian Community Health Survey Dataset

The cchsData.csv is available through  https://www.statcan.gc.ca/eng/microdata/data-centres

1. Aim: To explore the magnitude of the impact of lifestyle factors and physical disability on mood disorder among adults (age >18 years) and explore how the age difference modifies the impact of physical disability on the occurrence of mood disorder.
2. Methods: This study used the database of the Canadian Community Health Survey conducted in 2017-2018. After variable selection, categorical clustering, and excluding incomplete records, both univariate and multivariate logistic regression models were built to explore the association between lifestyle factors, physical disability, and the occurrence of mood disorders. This study also explored the interaction effects between age groups and both visual and stair climbing difficulty. The data preprocessing and statistical analysis were conducted by RStudio v4.2.0. p<0.05 is considered statistically significant.
3. Results: 94182 participants were enrolled in this study, the affordability of balanced meals (OR=0.36) is a significant protective factor against mood disorder while having repetitive injury (OR=1.79), smoking (OR=1.79), with visual difficulty (OR=1.62), and with difficulty climbing stairs (OR=2.18) are hazardous factors. The interaction between age groups and stair climbing difficulty is statistically significant (p<0.05), while such interaction between age groups and visual difficulty is mostly not.
4. Conclusions: Unaffordability of having a balanced meal, mobilization difficulty, smoking, visual difficulty, and repetitive strain injury are significantly associated with the occurrence of mood disorder. We also have to pay attention to the major disability among younger adults since it is more highly associated with the occurrence of mood disorders, compared to elder counterparts..
